feat: Environment variable FAQ for Vercel adapter (#8018)
sveltejs/kit: packages/adapter-vercel/README.md

};
```

## Environment Variables

Vercel makes a set of [non-prefixed deployment-specific environment variables](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/projects/environment-variables#system-environment-variables) available. This makes them private environment variables, accessible from `$env/static/private` and `$env/dynamic/private` (sometimes -- more on that later), and inaccessible from their public counterparts. To access one of these variables from the client:

```js
// +layout.server.js
import { VERCEL_COMMIT_REF } from '$env/static/private';

/** @type {import('./$types').LayoutServerLoad} */
export function load() {
	return {
		deploymentGitBranch: VERCEL_COMMIT_REF
	}
}
```

```svelte
<!-- +layout.svelte -->
<script>
  /** @type {import('./$types').LayoutServerData} */
	export let data;
</script>

<p>This staging environment was deployed from {data.deploymentGitBranch}.</p>
```

> Since all of these variables are available at buildtime on Vercel, we recommend using their `$env/static/private` varients for static replacement -- and you'll _have_ to if you're deploying to edge functions, as Vercel currenly will not include them dynamically at runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since all of these variables are unchanged between build time and run time when building on Vercel, we recommend using `$env/static/private` — which will statically replace the variables, enabling optimisations like dead code elimination — rather than `$env/dynamic/private`. If you're deploying with `edge: true` you _must_ use `$env/static/private`, as `$env/dynamic/private` and `$env/dynamic/public` are not currently populated in edge functions on Vercel.
```
